# Distracted-Driver-Detection
Recently there have been so many accidents recorded in which drivers were notattentive and they were busy doing some distracting activity,  which lead to theaccidents. The most common distraction among drivers is the usage of cell phonewhile  driving,  either  messaging  or  calling  someone,  apart  from  that  eating  ordrinking also lead to loss of attention from driving.We propose a solution of the above mentioned problem - An autonomous sys-tem which detects whether driver is driving the car with proper attention or isdistracted.  The major goal of this thesis is to create a solution that will help thedrivers and the authorities in detecting the distracting activities when performedby the drivers.  The system when given an image will classify the distracting ac-tivity performed by the driver.For achieving that we used cascaded Adaboost detectors [34], for identifying ab-solute poses like pose of cell in hand while calling or sending messages, or drink-ing anything etc.  We passed the region of Interest to the detector containing oneof the following poses. After successful training, the detector is able to detect anysuch pose, hence we immediately detect if a driver is performing any such activitythen he/she is surely distracted.The  problem  we  faced  is  that  some  poses  are  little  complex  for  adaboost  likeDriver Talking to passenger pose, so we perform additional steps. In order to de-tect such poses we identified the orientation of face in order to identify whethera driver is distracted, similarly we also experimented Eyes tracking by placing anadditional camera in front of driver which constantly tracks the eyes rotation. Thisfeature is extremely helpful in order to detect drowsiness while driving.
